And so what we can do, just to test
our knowledge, is we can use map and
filter to make a couple of new
arrays out of our Spice Girls.
So let's try this together.
How could we create a new array called
names that only has the name of
each Spice Girl?
So here, each object has two properties,
the name and the nickname.
What I want now is an array called names,
That's going to be just Emma,
Jerry, etc., yeah?
How could I do that with my map function,
for example?
Anybody wanna walk me through it?
Paul?
>> Sure, so it'd be spices.map.
>> Okay, so we're gonna map over every
element in the Spice Girls array,
every object in the spice girls array.
>> Then the s, and then the fat arrow.
>> Yeah, and the s is just an arbitrary
name, so I could say spice, for example.
Yep, fat arrow.
>> Then it'd be just spice.name.
>> If I spell it right,
[LAUGH] it would be.
Okay, let's try it out.
Names now is, exactly,
it is just the value of the spice.name
property on the original objects.
And is our spices array gonna
be different than it was before?
No, let's double check.
Spices still has objects in it, so
map does not mutate the array and
neither does filter.
Okay, let's do one more.
Let's try to make a new
array that's called endInY
with just the girls whose
nicknames end in y.
Okay, so similarly to earlier,
we wanted just the males.
Now we want just the girls
whose nicknames end in y, so
we want just Baby, Scary, and Sporty.
But we want the objects for those girls,
but we want only those three of them.
So who'd like to walk me through this one?
So if we want only certain items from this
array, do we need map or filter here?
Filter, exactly.
Great, do you wanna help
me take a stab at it?
>> Yeah, let, okay,
>> Sure yes, we can do let.
>> No, no, no, it's fine.
>> [LAUGH] Okay.
>> = spices.filter.
>> Yep.
>> Parentheses s
>> Arrow?
>> Arrow s.name.ends with?
>> So
it would be nice if we had an ends with,
like we do have starts with in things,
but unfortunately, for
whatever reason we don't
have the opposite.
But how could we get the the last
character in their name?
>> .pop?
>> We could use pop,
if we were working with arrays, but
strings are immutable, right, so
we can't pop things off of them.
So since we're working with strings here-
>> Contains, is there a contains method?
>> We could do, so
there's includes, right?
We had used that for our Mel,
we have includes, but
in that case if we did includes y,
in this case, it probably
might be the same but we could have a-
>> We're looking
for-
>> Yes, Queen Spice, and if the y was at
the beginning of the name, [LAUGH]
that wouldn't work, yeah, suggestion?
>> In chat they're saying endsWith.
>> Yeah, so endsWith, I mean, do we have
a method, endsWith hat I don't know about?
Let's look,
let's see if there's an endsWith.
We do, my gosh, okay, great.
All right, excuse me.
Earlier I said that we didn't have that,
and
I was totally wrong because I
didn't go to MDN and check.
Which is just a pedagogical device I
use to illustrate how you should always
go to MDN and check.
Totally, totally, totally, okay,
all right, we do have endsWith.
Sorry, please continue with
your endsWith solution.
>> It ends with y.
[LAUGH]
>> Ends with y, all right.
[SOUND] All righty, so
now let's check endInY.
Well, something went wrong here,
let's find out what.
Because I said, [LAUGH] what did
I look at was ending in y here?
>> Nickname, you want nickname and-
>> I was looking at names and
we wanted nicknames, and
that's probably on me cuz I probably typed
the wrong thing, so let's try it again.
Good thing I made this a let accidentally,
cuz now we can reassign it.
Let me try again.
This one's a challenge for
me for some reason, all right.
s.nickname this time,
that's what I think what you
had said earlier, endsWith("y").
Now, [LAUGH] endInY actually has those
three Spice Girls, question?
>> So how were you gonna do it
if you didn't have the endsWith?
>> Great question,
a complicated way that is less fun.
So another way that we could get the last
thing, so if I have a I don't know,
stringy here, with indices,
we can get the first character out,
right, or we could get,
I don't know, the third character.
We can also ask for
the length of a string,
Which is going to return, basically,
one more than the index
of the final character.
So what I can do is combine
this knowledge, and
in my square brackets,
I can actually pass in something that
evaluates to a number
instead of a number itself.
So I could do string, well, in this case,
it's a little annoying cuz I
have to type the thing again,
"stringy".length-1, and
that would get the value out.
So what I could do is complicatedY
[LAUGH] is spices.filter, oops,
well I guess I could name it x but
that'd be less helpful.
s, what was it, nickname.
S.nickname.length-1="y", which
is terrible and
not fun, but does get the job done.
I'm glad y'all had a way
better solution for
this than tired old me who didn't
finish her coffee this morning.
So thanks for teaching me JavaScript,
appreciate it.